Add page for decentralized social networks (#6020)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: src/content/social-networks/index.md

---

> title: Decentralized social media networks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Decentralized social networks
```

description: An overview of decentralized social networks on Ethereum
lang: en
template: use-cases
emoji: ":mega:"
sidebar: true
sidebarDepth: 2
image: ../../assets/ethereum-learn.png
summaryPoint1: Blockchain-based platforms for social interaction and content creation and distribution.  
summaryPoint2: Decentralized social media networks protect user privacy and enhance data security. 
summaryPoint3: Tokens and NFTs create new ways to monetize content. 
---

Social networks play a massive role in our daily communications and interactions. However, centralized control of these platforms has created many problems: data breaches, server outages, de-platforming, censorship, and privacy violations are some of the trade-offs social media often make. To combat these issues, developers are building social networks on Ethereum. Decentralized social networks can fix many of the problems of traditional social networking platforms and improve users' overall experience.

## What are decentralized social networks? {#what-are-decentralized-social-networks}

> Decentralized social media networks are blockchain-based platforms that allow users to exchange information as well as publish and distribute content to audiences. Because these applications run on the blockchain, they are capable of being decentralized and resistant to censorship and undue control. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Decentralized social networks are blockchain-based platforms that allow users to exchange information as well as publish and distribute content to audiences. Because these applications run on the blockchain, they are capable of being decentralized and resistant to censorship and undue control. 
```

Many decentralized social networks exist as alternatives to established social media services, such as Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, and Medium. But blockchain-powered social networks have a number of features that put them ahead of traditional social platforms. 

### How do decentralized social networks work? {#decentralized-social-networks-overview}

Decentralized social networks are a class of [decentralized applications (dApps)](/dapps/)—applications powered by [smart contracts](/developers/docs/smart-contracts/) deployed on the blockchain. The contract code serves as the backend for these apps and defines their business logic. 

Traditional social media platforms rely on databases to store user information, program code, and other forms of data. But this creates single points-of-failure and introduces significant risk. For instance, Facebook's servers infamously [went offline for hours](https://www.npr.org/2021/10/05/1043211171/facebook-instagram-whatsapp-outage-business-impact) last year, cutting off users from the platform. 

> Decentralized social media website exist on a peer-to-peer network comprising thousands of nodes around the globe. Even if some nodes fail, the network will run uninterrupted, making applications resistant to failures and outages. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Decentralized social networks exist on a peer-to-peer network comprising thousands of nodes around the globe. Even if some nodes fail, the network will run uninterrupted, making applications resistant to failures and outages. 
```

Using decentralized storage systems like [the InterPlanetary File System (IPFS)](https://ipfs.io/), social networks built on Ethereum can protect user information from exploitation and malicious use. No one will sell your personal information to advertisers, neither will hackers be able to steal your confidential details. 

Many blockchain-based social platforms have native tokens that power monetization in absence of advertising revenue. Users can buy these tokens to access certain features, complete in-app purchases, or tip their favorite content creators. 

> ## Benefits of decentralized social media platforms {#benefits-of-decentralized-social-media}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Benefits of decentralized social networks {#benefits}
```

> 1. Decentralized social media platforms are censorship-resistant and open to everyone. This means users cannot be banned, deplatformed, or restricted arbitrarily. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Decentralized social networks are censorship-resistant and open to everyone. This means users cannot be banned, deplatformed, or restricted arbitrarily. 
```

3. Decentralized social networks eliminate the "middle-man." Content creators have direct ownership over their content, and they engage directly with followers, fans, buyers, and other parties, with nothing but a smart contract in between.

3. As dapps running on the Ethereum network, which is sustained by a global, peer-to-peer network of nodes, decentralized social networks are less susceptible to server downtime and outages.

4. Decentralized social platforms offer an improved monetization framework for content creators via non-fungible tokens (NFTs) NFTs, in-app crypto payments, and more. 

5. Decentralized social networks afford users a high level of privacy and anyonymity. For instance, an individual can sign in to an Ethereum-based social network using an ENS profile or wallet—without having to share personally identifiable information (PII), such as names, email addresses, etc. 

> 6. Decentralized social media projects rely on decentralized storage, not centralized databases, which are considerably better for safeguarding user data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Decentralized social networks rely on decentralized storage, not centralized databases, which are considerably better for safeguarding user data.
```

> ## Decentralized social networks on Ethereum {#Ethereum-social-media}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Decentralized social networks on Ethereum {#ethereum-social-networks}
```

> The Ethereum network has become the preferred tool for developers creating decentralized social media networks owing to the popularity of its tokens (ERC-20/ERC-721) and its massive user base. Here are some examples of Ethereum-based social networks:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Ethereum network has become the preferred tool for developers creating decentralized social media owing to the popularity of its tokens (ERC-20/ERC-721) and its massive user base. Here are some examples of Ethereum-based social networks:
```

### Peepeth {#peepeth}

[Peepeth](https://peepeth.com/) is a microblogging platform similar to Twitter. It runs on the Ethereum blockchain and uses IPFS to store user data.

Users can send short messages called "Peeps", which cannot be deleted or modified. You can collect tips or tip anyone on the platform in ether (ETH) without leaving the app.

### Mirror {#mirror}

[Mirror](https://mirror.xyz/) is a decentralized and user-owned content distribution platform similar to Medium. Users can sign up by connecting their wallets or providing an Ethereum Name Service (ENS) username.

> Posts published on Mirror are permanently stored on Arweave, a decentralized storage platform. Users can earn money by selling their articles as [non-fungible tokens (NFTs)](https://ethereum.org/en/nft/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Posts published on Mirror are permanently stored on Arweave, a decentralized storage platform, and can be minted as collectable [non-fungible tokens (NFTs)](/nft/) known as Writing NFTs. Writing NFTs are completely free for writers to create, and collection happens on an Ethereum L2 — making transactions inexpensive, fast, and environmentally friendly.
```

### MINDS {#minds}

> [MINDS](https://www.minds.com/) is one of the most used decentralized social media platforms. It works like Facebook and has racked up millions of users already.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[MINDS](https://www.minds.com/) is one of the most used decentralized social networks. It works like Facebook and has racked up millions of users already.
```

Users use the platform's native ERC-20 token $MIND to pay for items. Users can also earn $MIND tokens by publishing popular content, contributing to the ecosystem, and referring others to the platform.

> ## Ethereum and legacy social media platforms {#ethereum-and-legacy-social-media-networks}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Web2 social networks on Ethereum {#web2-social-networks-and-ethereum}
```

### Twitter {#twitter}

In January 2021, Twitter Blue [rolled out support for NFTs](https://mashable.com/article/twitter-blue-nft-profile-picture), allowing users to connect their wallets and display NFTs as profile pictures. At time of writing, the social media company has also [announced plans](https://www.theverge.com/2021/8/16/22627435/twitter-bluesky-lead-jay-graber-decentralized-social-web) to create a decentralized social network in the future.

### Instagram {#instagram}

In May 2022, [Instagram announced support for NFTs](https://about.instagram.com/blog/announcements/instagram-digital-collectibles) on Ethereum and Polygon. Users can post NFTs directly to Instagram by connecting their Ethereum wallet. 

> ## Use decentralized social networks {#use-decentralized-social-media}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use decentralized social networks {#use-decentralized-social-networks}
```
